[Music]
five Civil War
in 1860 following the election of
Abraham Lincoln to the presidency the
South Carolina legislature by a
unanimous vote called for a state
convention it is symbol dat Columbia and
passed without dissent an ordinance
declaring that quote the Union now
subsisting between South Carolina and
the other states under the name of the
United States of America is hereby
dissolved and quote seceding on December
20th 1860 South Carolina was followed by
Mississippi January 19th 1861
Louisiana January 26th 1861 and Texas
February 1st 1861 these seceding states
called for a convention meeting in
Montgomery Alabama it framed a
constitution resembling the US
Constitution and On February 8 1861 set
up a provisional government thus was the
Confederacy born president-elect Lincoln
was unable to halt the Cataclysm of a
dissolving Union and open warfare among
the states by the time of his inaugural
March 4th 1861 the Confederate
provisional government had been
established February 8 1861 Jefferson
Davis had been elected February 9th 1861
and inaugurated as president of the
Confederacy February 18 1861 an army had
been assembled by the secessionist
states and federal forts and Arsenal's
within the South had been seized
beginning with the Charleston weapons
installation December 30th 1860 with the
Civil War the federal government lacked
any centralized intelligence
organization and in desperation
scrambled to establish a piecemeal
makeshift Secret Service efforts in this
regard became imperative when it was
soon realized that the territory
surrounding Washington Virginia Eastern
Maryland and southern Delaware was a
hotbed of treason Confederate agents and
poisonous conspiracies against the Union
quote war Navy
and State Department's at first acted
independently Seward of the State
Department took the lead
sending detectives into Canada and the
south the War Department was then
administered not by the tireless and
incorruptible Stanton but by that
cynical party boss Simon Cameron to whom
has been attributed the definition of an
honest politician as one that when he's
bought stays bought Lincoln dispensed
with Cameron and January 1862 and
removed him as far as possible from the
scene by appointing him minister to
Russia police chiefs of northern cities
for example uncle John Kennedy
superintendent of the Metropolitan
Police of New York had been called in to
assist not only by trailing and
arresting suspects but by lending
trained operatives General Winfield
Scott appears to have consulted and
worked with Seward rather than with
Cameron his own superior after a while
the military jails at Fort Warren Boston
Fort McHenry Baltimore and Fort
Lafayette New York were crowded to the
limit so in February 1862 Lincoln
ordered the release on parole of all
political and state prisoners except
spies or those otherwise in EM achill to
public safety nets fourth the principal
arrests of all suspects of that
character were by military power end
quote
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you